doc/Deploy_Manual.4D05.md, before:

* [Introduction](#1)
* [Preparation](#2)
   * [Prerequisite](#2.1)
   * [Check the hardware board](#2.2)
   * [Upgrade UEFI and trust firmware](#2.3)
* [Bring up System via ACPI mode](#3)
   * [Boot via PXE(ACPI)](#3.1)
   * [Boot via NFS(ACPI)](#3.2)
   * [Boot via DISK(SAS/USB/SATA)(ACPI)](#3.3)

<h2 id="1">Introduction</h2>

This documentation describes how to get, build, deploy and bring up target system based Estuary Project, it will help you to make your Estuary Environment setup from ZERO.

All following sections will take the D05 board as example, other boards have the similar steps to do, for more detail difference between them, please refer to Hardware Boards sections in http://open-estuary.com/hardware-boards/.

<h2 id="2">Preparation</h2>

<h3 id="2.1">Prerequisite</h3>

Local network: To connect hardware boards and host machine, so that they can communicate each other.

Serial cable: To connect hardware board’s serial port to host machine, so that you can access the target board’s UART in host machine.

Two methods are provided to **connect the board's UART port to a host machine**:

**Method 1** : connect the board's UART in openlab environment

 Use `board_connect` command.(Details please refer to `board_connect --help`)

**Method 2** : directly connect the board by UART cable

   a. Connect the board's UART port to a host machine with a serial cable.<br>
   b. Install a serial port application in host machine, e.g.: kermit or minicom.<br>
   c. Config serial port setting:115200/8/N/1 on host machine.<br>

For more details, please refer to [UEFI_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/UEFI_Manual.4D05.md)
"Upgrade UEFI" chapter.

<h3 id="2.2">Check the hardware board</h3>

Hardware board should be ready and checked carefully to make sure it is available, more detail information about different hardware board, please refer to http://open-estuary.org/d05/.

<h3 id="2.3">Upgrade UEFI and trust firmware</h3>

You can upgrade UEFI and trust firmware yourself based on FTP service, but this is not necessary. If you really want to do it, please refer to [UEFI_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/UEFI_Manual.4D05.md).

<h2 id="3">Bring up System via ACPI mode</h2>

There are several methods to bring up system, you can select following anyone fitting you to boot up.

D05 only supports booting via ACPI, not support DTS mode. Set the parameters as follow to boot via ACPI.

You must add `"acpi=force"` property in `"linux=...."` line for "grub.cfg" file.

e.g.:

```bash
# Booting from NFS with Centos rootfs
 menuentry "D05 Centos NFS(ACPI)" --id d05_centos_nfs_acpi {
set root=(tftp,192.168.1.107)
linux /Image acpi=force pcie_aspm=off rdinit=/init rootwait crashkernel=256M@32M root=/dev/nfs rw nfsroot=192.168.1.107:/home/hisilicon/ftp/<user>/centos ip=dhcp
}
```
NOTE: you can get more information about setting grub.cfg from [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).
<h3 id="3.1">Boot via PXE(ACPI)</h3>

In this boot mode, the UEFI will get grub from PXE server.The grub will get the configuration file from TFTP service configured by PXE server.

1. Setup PXE environment on host

   Enable both DHCP and TFTP services on one of your host machines according to [Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.4All.md).

2. Reboot and press anykey except "enter" to enter UEFI Boot Menu

3. Select boot option "Boot Manager"->"EFI Network `<No>`" boot option and press "Enter".

   Note:

   If you are connecting the D05 board of openlab, please select "EFI Network 2".

   The value of `<No>` is depended on which D05 GE port is connected. D05 board support 4 on-board network ports at maximun.To enable any one of them by connecting to network cable or optical fiber. From left to right, followed by two GE ports, two 10GE ports which corresponding to UEFI startup interface are EFI Network 2, EFI Network 3, EFI Network 0, EFI Network 1.

4. After several seconds, D05 will boot by PXE automatically.

To config the grub.cfg to support PXE boot, please refer to  [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).

<h3 id="3.2">Boot via NFS(ACPI)</h3>

In this boot mode, the root parameter in grub.cfg menuentry will set to /dev/nfs and nfsroot will be set to the path of rootfs on NFS server. You can use `"showmount -e <server ip address>" `to list the exported NFS directories on the NFS server.

D05 supports booting via NFS, you can try it as following steps:

1. Enable DHCP, TFTP and NFS service according to [Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.4All.md).

2. Get and config grub file to support NFS boot according to [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).

   Note: D05 only supports booting via ACPI mode with Centos distribution, so please refer to Grub_Manual.md to get correct configuration.

3. Reboot D05 and press anykey except "enter" to enter UEFI Boot Menu

4. Select boot option "Boot Manager"->"EFI Network `<No>`" boot option to enter.

  Note:
If you are connecting the D05 board of openlab, please select "EFI Network 2". The value of `<No>` is depended on which D05 GE port is connected.

<h3 id="3.3">Boot via DISK(SAS/USB/SATA)(ACPI)</h3>

D05 board supports booting via SAS, USB and SATA by default. The UEFI will directly get the grub from the EFI system partition on the hard disk. The grub will load the grub configuration file from the EFI system partition. So grubaa64.efi, grub.cfg, Image and different estuary release distributions are stored on disk.

1. Boot by PXE (please refer to "Boot via PXE") to part and format hardware disk before booting D05 board

   Format hardware disk

   e.g.:
   ```bash
   sudo mkfs.vfat /dev/sda1
   sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda2
   ```
   Part hardware disk with `"sudo fdisk /dev/sda"` as follow:<br>
   add a gpt to this disk :

   `fdisk /dev/sda`

   `g`-------add a gpt partition

   add some EFI partition :

   `n`-------add a partition

   `1`-------the number of partition

   type "Enter" key ------ First sector

   `+200M`---------Last sector, size of partition

   `t`-------change the type of partition

   EFI system

   add some another partition  `...`<br>
   save the change           : `w`<br>
   format EFI partition  : `sudo mkfs.vfat /dev/sda1`<br>
   format ext4 partition : `sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda2`<br>

   ```bash
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | Name    |   Size    |    Type      |   USB/SAS/SATA   |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda1    |   200M    |  EFI system  |   EFI            |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda2    |   10G     |    ext4      | linux filesystem |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda3    |   10G     |    ext4      | linux filesystem |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda4    |   10G     |    ext4      | linux filesystem |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda5    |rest space |    ext4      | linux swap       |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
    ```

   Note: EFI partition must be a fat filesystem, so you should format sda1 with `“sudo mkfs.vfat /dev/sda1″`.

2. Download files and store them into hardware disk as below.

   (SAS/USB/SATA)Related files are placed as follow:
   ```bash
   sda1: -------EFI
          |       |
          |       GRUB2------grubaa64.efi  //grub binary file
          |
          |-------------grub.cfg           //grub config file
          |
          |-------------Image          //kernel binary Image
    sda2: Centos distribution
   ```

   Note: D05 only supports booting system with Centos, so Centos distribution should be uncompressed in sda2. The grubaa64.efi file must be put in /EFI/GRUB2 directory of dev/sda1(gpt partition)

   To get kernel image file, please refer to [Readme.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/tree/estuary-d05-3.0b/doc/Readme.4D05.md).<br>
   To get and config grub and grub.cfg, please refer to [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/tree/estuary-d05-3.0b/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).<br>
   To get Centos distribution, please refer to [Distributions_Guider](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Distributions_Guide.4All.md).<br>

3. Boot the board via SAS/USB/SATA

   a. Modify grub config file, please refer to [Grub_Manual.4All.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/estuary-d05-3.0b/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md)<br>
   e.g.: <br>
   ```bash
    # Sample GRUB configuration file
    #
    # Boot automatically after 5 secs.
    set timeout=5
    # By default, boot the Estuary with Centos filesystem
    set default=d05_centos_sata_acpi
    # For booting GNU/Linux

    menuentry "D05 Centos SATA(ACPI)" --id d05_centos_sata_acpi {
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root <UUID>
    linux /Image acpi=force pcie_aspm=off rdinit=/init rootwait crashkernel=256M@32M root=PARTUUID=<PARTUUID> rootwait rootfstype=ext4 rw
    }
   ```

   Note:<br>
   `<UUID> `means the UUID of that partition which your EFI System is located in.<br>
   `<PARTUUID>` means the PARTUUID of that partition which your linux distribution is located in. <br>
    To see the values of UUID and PARTUUID, please use the command: `$blkid`.<br>

   b. Reboot and press anykey except "enter" to enter UEFI main menu.

   c. For USB: Select "Boot Manager"-> "EFI USB Device"-> to enter grub selection menu.

   For SAS: Select "Boot Manager"-> "EFI Misc Device 1" to enter grub selection menu.

   For SATA: Select "Boot Manager"-> "EFI Hard Drive" to enter grub selection menu.

   d. Press arrow key up or down to select grub boot option to decide which distribution should boot.

Commit message:

add part disk command "sudo parted /dev/sda"

doc/Deploy_Manual.4D05.md, after:

* [Introduction](#1)
* [Preparation](#2)
   * [Prerequisite](#2.1)
   * [Check the hardware board](#2.2)
   * [Upgrade UEFI and trust firmware](#2.3)
* [Bring up System via ACPI mode](#3)
   * [Boot via PXE(ACPI)](#3.1)
   * [Boot via NFS(ACPI)](#3.2)
   * [Boot via DISK(SAS/USB/SATA)(ACPI)](#3.3)

<h2 id="1">Introduction</h2>

This documentation describes how to get, build, deploy and bring up target system based Estuary Project, it will help you to make your Estuary Environment setup from ZERO.

All following sections will take the D05 board as example, other boards have the similar steps to do, for more detail difference between them, please refer to Hardware Boards sections in http://open-estuary.com/hardware-boards/.

<h2 id="2">Preparation</h2>

<h3 id="2.1">Prerequisite</h3>

Local network: To connect hardware boards and host machine, so that they can communicate each other.

Serial cable: To connect hardware board’s serial port to host machine, so that you can access the target board’s UART in host machine.

Two methods are provided to **connect the board's UART port to a host machine**:

**Method 1** : connect the board's UART in openlab environment

 Use `board_connect` command.(Details please refer to `board_connect --help`)

**Method 2** : directly connect the board by UART cable

   a. Connect the board's UART port to a host machine with a serial cable.<br>
   b. Install a serial port application in host machine, e.g.: kermit or minicom.<br>
   c. Config serial port setting:115200/8/N/1 on host machine.<br>

For more details, please refer to [UEFI_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/UEFI_Manual.4D05.md)
"Upgrade UEFI" chapter.

<h3 id="2.2">Check the hardware board</h3>

Hardware board should be ready and checked carefully to make sure it is available, more detail information about different hardware board, please refer to http://open-estuary.org/d05/.

<h3 id="2.3">Upgrade UEFI and trust firmware</h3>

You can upgrade UEFI and trust firmware yourself based on FTP service, but this is not necessary. If you really want to do it, please refer to [UEFI_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/UEFI_Manual.4D05.md).

<h2 id="3">Bring up System via ACPI mode</h2>

There are several methods to bring up system, you can select following anyone fitting you to boot up.

D05 only supports booting via ACPI, not support DTS mode. Set the parameters as follow to boot via ACPI.

You must add `"acpi=force"` property in `"linux=...."` line for "grub.cfg" file.

e.g.:

```bash
# Booting from NFS with Centos rootfs
 menuentry "D05 Centos NFS(ACPI)" --id d05_centos_nfs_acpi {
set root=(tftp,192.168.1.107)
linux /Image acpi=force pcie_aspm=off rdinit=/init rootwait crashkernel=256M@32M root=/dev/nfs rw nfsroot=192.168.1.107:/home/hisilicon/ftp/<user>/centos ip=dhcp
}
```
NOTE: you can get more information about setting grub.cfg from [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).
<h3 id="3.1">Boot via PXE(ACPI)</h3>

In this boot mode, the UEFI will get grub from PXE server.The grub will get the configuration file from TFTP service configured by PXE server.

1. Setup PXE environment on host

   Enable both DHCP and TFTP services on one of your host machines according to [Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.4All.md).

2. Reboot and press anykey except "enter" to enter UEFI Boot Menu

3. Select boot option "Boot Manager"->"EFI Network `<No>`" boot option and press "Enter".

   Note:

   If you are connecting the D05 board of openlab, please select "EFI Network 2".

   The value of `<No>` is depended on which D05 GE port is connected. D05 board support 4 on-board network ports at maximun.To enable any one of them by connecting to network cable or optical fiber. From left to right, followed by two GE ports, two 10GE ports which corresponding to UEFI startup interface are EFI Network 2, EFI Network 3, EFI Network 0, EFI Network 1.

4. After several seconds, D05 will boot by PXE automatically.

To config the grub.cfg to support PXE boot, please refer to  [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).

<h3 id="3.2">Boot via NFS(ACPI)</h3>

In this boot mode, the root parameter in grub.cfg menuentry will set to /dev/nfs and nfsroot will be set to the path of rootfs on NFS server. You can use `"showmount -e <server ip address>" `to list the exported NFS directories on the NFS server.

D05 supports booting via NFS, you can try it as following steps:

1. Enable DHCP, TFTP and NFS service according to [Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Setup_PXE_Env_on_Host.4All.md).

2. Get and config grub file to support NFS boot according to [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).

   Note: D05 only supports booting via ACPI mode with Centos distribution, so please refer to Grub_Manual.md to get correct configuration.

3. Reboot D05 and press anykey except "enter" to enter UEFI Boot Menu

4. Select boot option "Boot Manager"->"EFI Network `<No>`" boot option to enter.

  Note:
If you are connecting the D05 board of openlab, please select "EFI Network 2". The value of `<No>` is depended on which D05 GE port is connected.

<h3 id="3.3">Boot via DISK(SAS/USB/SATA)(ACPI)</h3>

D05 board supports booting via SAS, USB and SATA by default. The UEFI will directly get the grub from the EFI system partition on the hard disk. The grub will load the grub configuration file from the EFI system partition. So grubaa64.efi, grub.cfg, Image and different estuary release distributions are stored on disk.

1. Boot by PXE (please refer to "Boot via PXE") to part and format hardware disk before booting D05 board

   Format hardware disk

   e.g.:
   ```bash
   sudo mkfs.vfat /dev/sda1
   sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda2
   ```
   *For the disk capacity is less than 2T*, part hardware disk with `sudo fdisk /dev/sda` as follow:  
 
   add a gpt to this disk :

   `fdisk /dev/sda`

   `g`-------add a gpt partition

   add some EFI partition :

   `n`-------add a partition

   `1`-------the number of partition

   type "Enter" key ------ First sector

   `+200M`---------Last sector, size of partition

   `t`-------change the type of partition

   EFI system

   add some another partition  `...`<br>
   save the change           : `w`<br>

   *For the disk capacity is more than 2T*, part hardware disk with `sudo parted /dev/sda` as follow:  
   add a gpt to this disk:

   (parted):--------`mklabel`  
   New disk label type:-------`gpt`  

   add EFI partition:  

   (parted):------------`mkpart`  
   Partition name?------`p1`  
   File system type?----`ext2`  
   Start?----------------`1G`  
   End?------------------`2G`  

   add some another partition `mkpart`  
   `...`  

   remove the partition by `rm <NO>`  
   check out how many partitions by `p`  
   exit the partition by `q`  
 
   format EFI partition  : `sudo mkfs.vfat /dev/sda1`<br>
   format ext4 partition : `sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda2`<br>

   ```bash
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | Name    |   Size    |    Type      |   USB/SAS/SATA   |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda1    |   200M    |  EFI system  |   EFI            |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda2    |   10G     |    ext4      | linux filesystem |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda3    |   10G     |    ext4      | linux filesystem |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda4    |   10G     |    ext4      | linux filesystem |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
   | sda5    |rest space |    ext4      | linux swap       |
   +---------+-----------+--------------+------------------+
    ```

   Note: EFI partition must be a fat filesystem, so you should format sda1 with `“sudo mkfs.vfat /dev/sda1″`.

2. Download files and store them into hardware disk as below.

   (SAS/USB/SATA)Related files are placed as follow:
   ```bash
   sda1: -------EFI
          |       |
          |       GRUB2------grubaa64.efi  //grub binary file
          |
          |-------------grub.cfg           //grub config file
          |
          |-------------Image          //kernel binary Image
    sda2: Centos distribution
   ```

   Note: D05 only supports booting system with Centos, so Centos distribution should be uncompressed in sda2. The grubaa64.efi file must be put in /EFI/GRUB2 directory of dev/sda1(gpt partition)

   To get kernel image file, please refer to [Readme.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/tree/estuary-d05-3.0b/doc/Readme.4D05.md).<br>
   To get and config grub and grub.cfg, please refer to [Grub_Manual.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/tree/estuary-d05-3.0b/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md).<br>
   To get Centos distribution, please refer to [Distributions_Guider](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/master/doc/Distributions_Guide.4All.md).<br>

3. Boot the board via SAS/USB/SATA

   a. Modify grub config file, please refer to [Grub_Manual.4All.md](https://github.com/open-estuary/estuary/blob/estuary-d05-3.0b/doc/Grub_Manual.4All.md)<br>
   e.g.: <br>
   ```bash
    # Sample GRUB configuration file
    #
    # Boot automatically after 5 secs.
    set timeout=5
    # By default, boot the Estuary with Centos filesystem
    set default=d05_centos_sata_acpi
    # For booting GNU/Linux

    menuentry "D05 Centos SATA(ACPI)" --id d05_centos_sata_acpi {
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root <UUID>
    linux /Image acpi=force pcie_aspm=off rdinit=/init rootwait crashkernel=256M@32M root=PARTUUID=<PARTUUID> rootwait rootfstype=ext4 rw
    }
   ```

   Note:<br>
   `<UUID> `means the UUID of that partition which your EFI System is located in.<br>
   `<PARTUUID>` means the PARTUUID of that partition which your linux distribution is located in. <br>
    To see the values of UUID and PARTUUID, please use the command: `$blkid`.<br>

   b. Reboot and press anykey except "enter" to enter UEFI main menu.

   c. For USB: Select "Boot Manager"-> "EFI USB Device"-> to enter grub selection menu.

   For SAS: Select "Boot Manager"-> "EFI Misc Device 1" to enter grub selection menu.

   For SATA: Select "Boot Manager"-> "EFI Hard Drive" to enter grub selection menu.

   d. Press arrow key up or down to select grub boot option to decide which distribution should boot.
